*Hebrews 11*
*session 1: Rebuilding our Understanding of Faith" 
The reality of how to live out your faith.
What do I think about when I think about the word "love"?
	Favorite Food?
	Person?
	Family?
	Maybe I think about favorite Netflix show?
	
What do I think about when i think about the word "hope"?
	Grad school?
	Offer in job?
	Reunion?
	Do better with a friendship?
	End the year well?
	
What do I think about when i think about the word "faith"?
	We need to understand what faith is. 
We need to return to what the Bible says of what "faith" is! 
A lot of people have misconceptions of what the definition of faith is. 
Faith is perhaps in its dangerous form is in the word of faith, movement; if I have the right "amount of faith", then I will prosper. If I am not prospering, then I might not have the right "amount" of faith.

Faith isn't about getting what you want. So what is true, geniune, saving faith, that endures to the end? 

We cannot have a loose understanding of what faith is, or else we are left vulnerable to sin. 
Chapter 9 - Sufficient, final sacrifice of God
Chapter 10 - Drawing near and holding fast to God because we have been reconciled to God; looking to the past, present, and future of God working in our lives  
Chapter 11 - Past examples of people who held fast to God and were faithful to Him
"Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith. Hab 2:4."
Faith in Christ is what preserves us to the end. Calm courag


Faith Defined
Verse 1
Two definitions of faith:
	Faith is the assurance of things hoped for
		Assurance is the firm confidence of things hoped for 
		Where we ought to have confidence in is in Jesus Christ 
			From all that He has done as our Great High Priest
			He has all done that had to be done by Himself so that we have 				reconcilliaion with God
		Things hoepd for = truths that haven't happened yet 
		Faith is certainity for what has not happend yet will indeed happen, confidence that what God has said, He will make it come to fruition 
		It's a blessing to stand on the other side of the cross, to see how the Old Testament saints persisted in their faith, even though they never knew the work of Jesus Christ 
	The conviction of things not seen 
		Conviction = Rebuking of wrong doing, conscience is damaged
		Faith against doubt of what you can't see
		Conviction that there is a spiritual reality that as a human, we cannot see; we cannot see because it's either in the future or we live in the earthly realm, which is seperate from the Spiritual realm 
		It's the understanding is that our tendacy to see for ourselves if it's actually true; though we cannot see, taste, or touch, we can be ablsutely confdient that what God has said to pass is true, and will keep His promises 
Faith Demonstrated 
	Faith is centered on what God has promised, not what i want 
	Faith takes in what God has said and as believers, we respond humbly and accordingly
	Is God's Word about us or His glorious Son?
	Will I respond in faith, or will I shrink away? 
	Will I as a righteous one live by faith and hold fast to Jesus, or will I let the truth of Him slip through my grip? 
	Hebrews calls us to hold fast and draw near to Jesus
	1 John 1:1-4
	All I have to do is to approach, draw near in faith! 
	All that we have for us is to draw near in faith 


Verse 2
Commendation - to be commended, to be given approval 
	People of faith, they gain approval by God, and not by man
	God rewards faith mainly in an eternal way, with a clear path to the heavenly city forever
	By faith, we receive divine approval.
	God spoke to these Old Testament saints with less information than us. We have the whole Bible! 
	God spoke to our fathers through the prophets, and they responded in faith humbly and accordingly. 
Will I respond humbly and accordingly, submitting my life to Jesus Christ in faith? 
Do I have faith in God? 
Faith responds to God, and God commends and rewards faith. 

Verse 3
What we defined is now brought to life, demonstrated, and points to how it operates in the hearts and minds of His listeners. By faith, we understand that the unviverse is created by the hand of God. God is using the event of creation to display how faith works. No one was there to witness such a creation or write it down or see it happen, yet we believers affirm that God created the heavens and the earth. 

it is not without evidence, the point is ultimately of what the creation was: an event of no human witnesses 
You and I as people of faith ultimately can understand it by faith, you and I can understand it because God has told us that's what happened! 
Ultimately, we need to believe by faith that God is the creator of all, no matter how many experts we consult. 

He spoke it to existence with His Word.
What we see in the physical world is made by God. God makes all things possible! He is the ultimate source of all that can be seen.
We should have a hard time, by faith, receiving the amazing good news of the gospel. If you're not willing to believe by faith that God created the heavens and the earth, then we should be taking a hard time the wholesale benefits of beliving in Jesus Christ. 

It's the same God who gives the same testimony, who sent His one and only Son to die for our sins, the same God who lets us draw near to God. 

Verse 4 (Pre flood examples)
	Faith is not only believes, but also acts and walks; manifest itself in obedience to God and His relevation
	Integral inside and outside response to God 
	Firm confidence on what He will do 
	faith is responsiveness to God in belief and confidence
	Conviction in not being complacent, but being lively and vital certainity which impels the belivever to stretch out his and lay his hand on those realities in where his hopes are fixed and in the thigns that are unseen 
	Faith springs into action 
	This is faith pre Jesus, this is faith before Christ
	We can see that the bare concept of what faith is and how it lives and walks and breathes, then we can have all the more data with the glory of Christ with very own eyes, we can easily respond in faith 
	We can embrace in fullness the person and walk of Jesus our great High priest
 	Genesis 4 and 5 and 6 
Abel
	Cain killed Abel... :((((
	If we flipped back to Genesis 4, Cain didn't only kill Abel, but there was a reason why Cain killed Abel 
	God received Abel's sacrifice, and didn't receive Cain's sacrifice 
	God commended Abel for accepting Abel's gifts, He saw the heart of the offerer, and what He saw in Abel was ah eart inf aith, and what He saw in Cain's heart was not a heart of faith, the hatred and jealousy of his brother 
	It's faith that takes action, offering to God what He has required 
	Thoguh He died, He still speaks, his blood cried out from the ground 
	Coram Deo!!!!
	he lived before the face of God not just outwardly, but also inwardly in His heart 
Verse 5 (Enoch) 
	Enoch is someone who did not die, unlike Abel
 	Enoch walked with God, and God took Him (he didn't die.... :000)) 
There are many things outside God that we are striving after for, nto because it';s what God has for me, but will it truely matter in my testimony? 
	God commended Enoch, and took Him away with Him so that he may not see death. 
	Enoch simply walked with God.
	The way Enoch walked, the way he lived before God, it was evident enough that He was a man of faith. 
	Epesians 4, Romans 6:4, we need to walk in the newness of our life, walk according to the call that we have received! 
	Without faith, it is impossible to please God 
	If we want to draw near to God, we must have faith
	By grace, we have been safed through faith! 
	The way to God is faith 
	For we have been justified by faith, we have peace with Jesus Christ! (Romans 5) 
	It is through faith that we can draw near to God.

Noah 
	Genesis 6 tells us that the Lord saw the wickedness of man
	Noah did all that God had commanded him. He did all of this in reverent fear. By this, He condemned the world, and became a heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. Noah believed God, and held firm confidence that a flood would come, but God would restore the earth, and Noah did all that God told Him waht to do even though it looked so silly to everyone else, yet Noah still followed through. What faith, what confidence had said what happened. Faith that recognizes that it needs help, it needs wisdom from above, it needs strength. 

That righteouenss is all through faith. Enduring faith, is faith that lasts into eternity. 
is this is faith, firm confidence in God's promsies and what He has said, and responding in humility, do I have this kind of faith? I need to takae inventory if I am not sure, and if I am sure, am I really really sure? 
All it takes is faith like a mustard seed.
It is not by bread, but by every Word from the living God, and we need to respond to Word in faith! 
Every waking moment, we need to live in light of what God has said. 
